Cycling can be a good way of relieving stress or improving overall health. Unfortunately, cycling provides its problems, one of which is the involvement of cyclists in road accidents. According to European Road Safety Observatory, in 2016 around 25 600 people were killed as a result of a road accident. Cyclists being a small portion of traffic when compared to motorized vehicles, make up 8% of the overall number of fatalities. Alarmingly, as shown in the Community Road Accident Database chart, that percentage seems to be growing every year. Cyclists’ peculiar behavior in traffic, their presence on the road and the use of distractors by all road users seem to be a problem. A good insight into the problem and coming up with a solution is strongly recommended. 
Cyclists sometimes behave in peculiar ways in traffic. One example of such behavior is the cyclist’s decision to became some kind of a ‘hybrid’ between a pedestrian and a motorized vehicle. More specifically, by starting a journey on a road, then to avoid stopping at red light suddenly, crossing the street to become a pedestrian. This erratic behavior often causes a lot of confusion and can endanger other road users. The solution to minimalize switching from one to the other is tricky since the problem lies within the frame of mind of the cyclist. Perhaps one way to challenge that perspective is to come up with a campaign similar to the one about driving while drunk. Appealing to the emotional side, showing the consequences of such behavior or showing real stories may prove to be food for thought. 
The general proportion of cyclist fatalities in the EU is that 58% occur inside urban areas, suggesting the involvement of traffic. If a bike lane is not available, cyclists often use the road to travel because the law prevents them from using sidewalks. As a consequence, they become more vulnerable. Even with a helmet and other protection, they have no chance against a car. The only visible solution is to provide cyclists with better cycling infrastructure like off-road bicycle lanes, curb extensions or shared-use streets. All things that can make cyclists feel more secure and visible to other road users.
Recent technological development provided cyclists with all kinds of gadgets to make the journey more pleasant. Unfortunately, these same devices are becoming more and more distracting. Listening to music on wireless headphones or playing a game on a smartphone during the drive creates life-threatening situations, where cyclists are not fully aware of their surroundings and can become careless. Of course the same can be said about drivers. For that to change, there is a need for the law to become more rigorous. Those road users who ignore regulations about not using distractors should pay higher traffic fines and penalties. Moreover, the police and other appropriate services should be more diligent in enforcing those regulations.
Common sense suggests, that cyclists are the most vulnerable group traveling on a road. Because of that, it is vital to come up with solutions to prevent accidents involving cyclists. To do exactly that, one should think about creating a nationwide campaign to help challenge the frame of mind of cyclists, providing better cycling infrastructure to make cyclists safer and more visible and tightening regulations especially in terms of distractors.
