Feeling sad or tired is a part of everyday life. But when these feelings last weeks or months and affect your productivity, it could mean that you are dealing with depression. Depression still seems to be a taboo subject among people despite being a very common disorder. Unfortunately, because of the stigma, it may go unnoticed or untreated for far too long. It can affect people of all ages – even young people. Negative life events in childhood, problems at home or school, and toxic friends all that can put young people at risk for developing depression. It is a problem that needs to be taken seriously since depression can lead to drastic measures like inflicting self-harm or committing suicide. Some factors can mitigate these negative experiences. Improving the school environment, supporting young people in their struggles, and improving their mental health, are steps in the right direction to combat depression among young people.
The solution combat depression is to improve the school environment by creating a school program that can teach social and problem-solving skills, help students with their self-esteem,  promote anti-bullying policies, and provide students with tools to combat negative events in their lives. Additionally, teachers should build positive and supportive relationships with their students so that these children can have someone to confide in and get positive recognition for their work and activities. 
Young people need to have positive relationships in their immediate environment that can support them. It can be a family member, a friend, a teacher, or even a neighbor. Young people need to be encouraged to talk about their feelings and fears. Encouraging them to visit a professional doctor is always a good idea, even if the anxiety is still manageable – if only to prevent depression later on. Getting help from a healthcare professional is tricky since this is the part that is often stigmatized - if you need therapy than you are crazy, which is not the case at all. When you break a leg you go to a doctor. Why it should not be the case when that broken thing is your mind?
Improving mental health is a good way of battling or preventing depression. It is important to exercise regularly, even in small doses – starting with small things like a walk in a park or riding a bike to school. It is also a good idea to change the diet to include healthier food – finding that balance between a cheeseburger and broccoli. Anxiety can be combat by enjoyable activities when there is no time to think negatively – maybe even finding a hobby. 
Depression in young people is a serious problem that can lead to self-harm or suicide. There are solutions to combat that problem. Improving the school environment by preventing bullying, creating programs that teach social skills and positive outlook, and giving positive recognition to students for their work. Young people at risk need support from the immediate environment so that they can have someone to confide in and share their feelings with. Lastly, depression can be battled or prevented by improving mental health - exercising regularly, eating healthy food, or finding a hobby. Combing all these solutions can create a solid strategy suitable to combat that serious adversary that is depression.
